+++

title = "Introduction to Kubernetes Workshop (Half-Day)"
time_start = 2018-11-11T08:30:00
time_end = 2018-11-11T12:00:00
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""
event = "SC18"
event_url = "https://sc18.supercomputing.org/presentation/?id=tut162&sess=sess260"
location = "Dallas, Texas"
selected = false
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = "https://github.com/mrbobbytables/k8s-intro-tutorials"
math = false
highlight = false

[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

Containers have shifted the way applications are packaged and delivered. Their use in data science and machine learning
is skyrocketing with the beneficial side effect of enabling reproducible research. This rise in use has necessitated
the need to explore and adopt better container-centric orchestration tools. Of these tools, Kubernetes - an open-source
container platform born within Google -- has become the de-facto standard.

Kubernetes API-driven, highly extensible design has lead to its adoption by numerous vendors and projects. IBM,
JupyterHub, Spark, Pachyderm, kubeflow, and many other tools boast native methods of integration.

The aim of this half-day tutorial is to introduce those researchers and sys admins who may already be familiar with
container concepts to the architecture and fundamental concepts of Kubernetes. Attendees will explore these concepts
through a series of hands-on exercises and leave with the leg-up in continuing their container education, and gain a
better understanding of how Kubernetes may be used for research applications.
