+++

title = "Introduction to Kubernetes Workshop (Full-Day)"
time_start = 2018-10-15T08:00:00
time_end = 2018-10-15T17:00:00
abstract = ""
abstract_short = ""
event = "Internet2: 2018 Technology Exchange"
event_url = "https://meetings.internet2.edu/2018-technology-exchange/"
location = "Orlando, Florida"
selected = false
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = "https://github.com/mrbobbytables/k8s-intro-tutorials"
math = false
highlight = false

[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

Containers have shifted the way applications are packaged and delivered. Their use with cloud oriented services, data
science and machine-learning is skyrocketing with the beneficial side effect of enabling reproducible research. This
rise in use has necessitated the need to explore and adopt better container-centric orchestration tools. Of these
tools, Kubernetes - an open-source container platform born within Google -- has become the de-facto standard.

Kubernetes API-driven, highly extensible design has lead to its adoption by numerous vendors and projects. Powering the
likes of Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and Redhat, it has truly delivered a single, platform agnostic API for managing
infrastructure.

The aim of this tutorial is to introduce those application architects, developers, and system administrators who may
already be familiar with container concepts to the architecture of Kubernetes. Through a series of lectures and
hands-on exercises, attendees will explore the many facets of working in a Kubernetes environment. These exercises will
be augmented with discussions and demonstrations of various practical application deployments, with the goal of
attendees being able to come away from the tutorial with the knowledge to begin to consume Kubernetes as a platform for
their own programs and services.